>> Will Sentance: Closure functions
getting back packs give our
functions persistent memories.
Look at this,
my new function has a persistent store
of data attached to it permanent.
It sticks around,
it's not going anywhere, a cache,
permanent store of data gives entirely new
toolkit for writing professional code.
So firstly helper functions,
you see them in the challenges,
everyday professional headphones,
like once you memorize.
Let's actually take
a second to look at these.
So once a memorize,
he would be an example.
Maybe I can use red, let's see.
So if I were to do a one to five
version of multiply by two,
the first time I run it multiply
by two with the input of seven.
It would give me out 14.
Next time I run it, with the input
of ten it would give out sorry, or
something like that,
you can't run me again.
Because when I ran it,
I would have created it inside the runner
running another function returned out.
And I throw it back over the counter.
When I run it I written the logic
that it does the multiplication, but
then it increments
accounts in the backpack.
Next time I run it,
it checks that backpack.
Count is already one.
And instead of even doing
the math returns out sorry.
It might typically instead to do this it
might actually typically store the value
of 14 and about pack.
And next time,
it's gonna return on that original value.
This is super useful in practice.
Obviously not desperate for this one,
but super useful in practice.
If you're building any App where
you want to lock down maybe for
example like a winning function, that when
the apps finish the game is finished.
And you want you don't want to have
someone, rerun that function, you want to
lock that function down it can only be
run once it's the winning function.
It's a function that when the when
somebody won the game triggers all the all
the stuff to do on winning or
not it tic tac toe, for example.
You don't wanna be able to reset
any of the values in the cells.
Once it's got an o, it's locked down,
you can't run it again.
Once it finds a really clean and
readable way of locking down code to not
run it multiple times, that's kinda nice.
Memorization, standard
computer science practice,
of saying, if I have a task like,
that's starting to become
my [LAUGH] too much information via tall
is like finding the end prime number.
Any in slow toss and prime number
that's fine suppose like 127,000.
Okay, clearly my random number
generation is not very good.
I've got one of the least random
numbers in coding 127,000.
And one,
if I try to find that prime number,
the 127,000th prime number,
that's gonna take a bit of time.
But in my run time, in my app,
if I run it once, it may happens again.
I'm not turning my app off and
starting it again very often.
So if I run it once,
I may need to run it again, typically.
Do I wanna recalculate that?
Or do I want to have that nth prime
function definition have a backpack into
which I have an object with key and
value pairs where every time I run it with
an input, first time I run it with
an input, I do the hard work, figure out.
I don't know, maybe the nth prime number,
maybe the 827,000th or
first prime numbers I don't know,
whatever it is.
And then, in my key value pairs
in the backpack of the function,
I'm going to have a key 127, 001 and
a value of whatever that prime number is.
The 127,000 1st prime number,
maybe it's I don't know.
That's good.
Maybe get 257,133.
There you go, high risk there.
It is installing that.
Next time I run the function, and prime,
that either shows I have no
idea about prime numbers or.
Next time I write the function
with that with that inputs.
I ain't gonna figure it out
myself from scratch again.
I'm going to go look in the backpack.
Check it's been done with, what was that?
And with one step, one look up,
grab and return, super nice.
This is the notion of memorization,
giving our functions
persistent memories of their
previous input output combinations.
And that's super effective.
But there's more iterators and generators.
Wasn't a wish use lexical scoping
enclosure to achieve the most
contemporary.
It's a very empty statement.
They are something in whole parts,
new hard parts he was seeing it.
I think this is a very elegant
way of accessing data.
So we saw early the full
loop is a pain in the ass.
I don't really care about the index,
I care about the value in that
position of the array, the element.
Well, it wouldn't be amazing if I
could creat a function that when run,
it gives me out the first
element in my right?
Run it again, its output is the next
element, run it again its output is
the next, how's it remembering
previously giving out previous element?
Don't worry, in the backpack it store
in little counter that's tracking
through the underlying data.
Generating say that's
an even larger level.
What if I could actually appear to
pause the running of a function?
Or what is it running a function?
Well, its memory and
the liner in the function.
That's it,
if I were to come back to a function,
all I need is what was in the memory.
And while I was I on a generation,
it says you come back to
continue running a function, how?
Because it stored all the live data.
In the backpack, meaning when you
come back and start running it again.
It just grabs a day from the backpack and
there is all your data is you went and
you are back in the function.
Module pattern, right?
This is really interesting.
We want to have data that persists for
the lifespan of application.
Where can we normally puts it?
We can not put it inside a function
call because he gets deleted.
Once you exit the function,
he put it in global.
But in a lot of code base with that
100,000 lines of code with 100 view
rappers.
You ain't having global memory
polluted with the global label
results as a lot of developing
your team who love that label.
And you know declaring with
Khan's help somewhat but
just now no one else can
declare it globally.
I think that much better.
So instead we have design patterns that
preserved state that's live data for
the life of your application without
polluting the global namespace,
multiple patterns.
One of them is many of them.
If he's achieved the same thing,
what are they doing?
What's the model patent doing?
You know what it's doing,
is protecting state inside backpacks.
It saying there is a way of maintaining
state for the life of application.
And that's by the magic,
or not magic at all.
That's by having data that is protected,
can be interfaced with, but
only through a very, very clean
interface of running that function.
And making sure you pass in
the right stuff, to get access, and
store and persist data in the backpack.
And the node module pattern is all
just using closure In the backpack.
And you see this JavaScript.
We'll see to it tomorrow, call-backs and
promises also all rely on
closure if it's this state.
What this means is in a sync job,
which we'll see tomorrow,
you often send off a task that's
gonna complete long in the future.
When it does, you're going to
run a function on that data.
And you may want to use data that was
there when that function was initially set
up and the toss was initially set up.
But hold on,
that day's all gone, hasn't it?
Nope, that data that could ever be used
is held on into the functions backpack.
Meaning when we end up running
the function, for example, we go and
speak to Twitter, bring back send tweets,
trigger a function to run
automatically on those tweets.
Maybe it needs some data that was there
when that function was initially defined
and the speak to Twitter task was set up,
but it that data still there?
Well, of course it is.
Don't worry,
cuz it's stored in the backpack.